# ndplex
The n-Dimensional m-Plex (ndplex) Array: a generic Pascal's array in Python

includes Python class ndplex(np.ndarray):

    Class of n-Dimensional m-Plex (ndplex) array object, representing generic 
    Pascal's rectangle, cube, or higher dimension array. By default, object is a 
    square array of integers with ones on the top and left edges and interior 
    nodes generated by Pascal's rule. However, user may define any number of 
    edges of any numerical value(s) and any valid node-generating function. 

    Attributes
    ----------
    nrows : int; length (in number of rows) of each edge
    edges : list or tuple of ints, lists, or 1D arrays; 
            if element is list, list must be of length nrows;
            front edges of array; for example row 0 and column 0 of square
    arg_locs : 2D array or list of lists of ints<=0; 
                locations, relative to subject node, of arguments to func;
                e.g. default arg_locs for 2D ndplex is [[-1,0],[0,-1]]
    func : function; used to generate value of each interior node
    dtype : int or float type; datatype of array nodes
    ndim : int; dimensions, calculated from the number of edges
    
    Methods
    -------
    diag() : Starts at loc node or 1D array and moves through ndplex,
            creating a diagonal (here, a line or cross section through ndplex),
            and returning nodes along diagonal
    as_tri() : Prints ndplex as a triangle (if 2D), tetrahedron (if 3D),
                4-simplex (if 4D), etc.
                
and the following aditional utility functions:

oeis(array, size=None, trim=False):
    Searches OEIS.org for sequence in each array row and prints results.

    Parameters
    ----------
    array : ndarray
    size : int; number of rows searched; if None, size is the number of rows
        in the array
    trim : bool; if True, trims zeros from the start and end of each row
        before searching

diag_as_hist(w, labels=None, normed=True):
    Plots weighted histogram(s) from 1D array(s), with the weights being the 
    values of the array. Optionally plots a standard normal PDF for comparison. 

    Parameters
    ----------
    w : 1D arrary or list of 1D arrays
    labels : None or list of strings 
    normed : bool; If True, the area under the histogram sums to 1, and the plot
            displays a standard normal PDF.
    
    Note: Seaborn does not yet support weighted KDE:
    sns.distplot(vals, bins = 20, hist_kws={'weights':y}, kde=True)
